Update posts (#28)
apiobuild/apiobuild.github.io: content/blog/create-an-online-store-for-free.md

---
title: "Create an Online Store for FREE"
image: /images/blog/email.png
date: 2020-07-06
tags: ["chopin", "waitress", "telescope", "announcement", "ecommerce", "online-store", "google", "sheets"]
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Are you looking for free and easy way to setup your online store? We have a solution for you. Introducing <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/app/chopin" target="_blank">Chopin by apio </a>, a simple online store creator that allows you to configure your online store in a few clicks for free. Try today to start selling your products online.
```

> The convenience of online shopping has changed consumers’ purchasing habits. According to  <a href="https://www.statista.com/statistics/242512/online-retail-visitors-in-the-us-by-age-group/)" target="_blank">statista</a>, 67% of millennials and 56% of gen-Xers prefer to shop online. The rising concerns of coronavirus transmission also open up new opportunities for online retailers. Whether you are expanding your brick and mortar store to eCommerce, or just starting your online business, **this post will show you how to build an online store in the most economical and easy way!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Current Solutions for Online Store

> When thinking of selling goods online, you have three choices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating online stores, you have a couple of choices:
```

- List items on marketplace platforms (<a href="https://www.etsy.com/" target="_blank">Etsy</a>, <a href="https://www.ebay.com/" target="_blank">eBay</a>)
- Use an eCommerce website builder (<a href="https://www.shopify.com/" target="_blank">Shopify</a>, <a href="https://www.squarespace.com/" target="_blank">Squarespace</a>, <a href="https://www.bigcommerce.com/" target="_blank">BigCommerce</a>, <a href="https://www.wix.com/" target="_blank">Wix</a>)
- Build your own eCommerce website with open-source (<a href="https://www.opencart.com/" target="_blank">OpenCart</a>)

> Let’s talk through each option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> **Spoiler Alert:** We found that there is an easier way to replace these existing options. <a href="#chopin">Jump to learn how Chopin generates an online store for FREE with only a few clicks and google sheets.</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Orrrrrrrrrrr** There's a free and easy way we created - <a href="#chopin">Learn how Chopin generates online stores for FREE with only a few clicks and google sheets now.</a>
```

#### Online Marketplace: Customers Can’t Find You

This is probably the cheapest way to go into the world of eCommerce. You might already have the experience selling second-hand items on eBay, Craiglist, or Facebook Marketplace and are familiar with the interface. At sites like Etsy, there are other sellers and customers who share the same market/interest with you. **However, it’s hard to stand out from your competitors.** 

> There are limited custom branding options, and the search results are based on product name relevancy. While product names with very long names can be beneficial for the search algorithm, they are too complicated to be easily scanned and understood by the customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While product names with very long names can be beneficial for the search algorithm, they are too complicated to be easily scanned and understood by the customer.
```

> #### Website Builder: Seems Easy but Intimidating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Website Builder: All the Customization You Don't Need
```

There are just too many online store builders you can choose from. While the basic plan can be as low as $18 per month, these costs can add up and increase as your business grows due to scalable pricing. You’re already paying a lot of startup costs: web-hosting, domain name, email marketing, **why add more monthly fees to your overhead?**

To better serve different business models and needs, these services strive for developing as many features as possible. **The options available on the settings page and the enormous plug-ins sometimes can be quite intimidating to a new user.**

> #### Build Your Own Custom Store:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Chopin: Enjoy both the Simplicity and Ultimate Freedom
```

> If you are a technical person or have resources to hire a tech team, you might be looking into leveraging open-source solutions (Open Cart) to build your custom online shopping site. Despite the active developer community and user forum, there xxxxx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While our out-of-box option allows you to set up your store with only a couple of clicks. All templating options are available for you to customize by uploading html block. Let us take care of the security, deployment, monitoring so you can focus on the most important components that helps you grow your business - content and marketing.
```

## <a id="chopin"></a>Introducing Chopin

> It’s hard to decide which approach suits you best, as there are many pros and cons. Why waste time on researching which platform to sell? You should’ve started selling your product!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s hard to decide which approach suits you best, and there are many pros and cons. Why waste time on researching which platform to sell when you could've started selling your product already!
```

**<a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/app/chopin" target="_blank">Chopin by apio </a> is a lightweight static online store generator.** After providing store information (name, logo), catalog (item/service description and price), and order form through API, it will generate a static website with a unique url.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Benefits

#### Easy to Set Up

> Chopin made creating your own store as easy as filling out a simple survey. You only need to provide your **logo and store information** as well as **google sheets** with the merchandise and order details respectively, then **your shopping site will be generated.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chopin made creating your own store as easy as filling out a simple survey. You only need to provide your **logo and store information** as well as **google sheets** with the catalog and order data respectively, then **your shopping site will be generated.**
```

> To save even more of your time and energy, you can simply let <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/app/waitress" target="_blank">Waitress </a> (our lightweight API to use Google Sheet as a data store for backend applications) extract merchandise information from your google sheets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To save even more of your time and energy, you can simply let <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/app/waitress" target="_blank">Waitress </a> (our lightweight API to use Google Sheet as a data store for backend applications) extract catalog data from your google sheets.
```

#### Responsive Design

As much as we want to provide great user experiences for store owners, we also want your customers to have a smooth experience when browsing the merchandise. Chopin’s website design can accommodate different settings on a variety of devices and screen sizes. **Your customers will be able to place orders on their phones, tablets, or laptops.** You also save energy by not having to develop and test different designs on various devices.

#### Free and Flexible

> At <a href="https://apiobuild.com/" target="_blank">apio </a>, we believe that good technology should be accessible and shareable. **Chopin is a FREE solution for small business owners.** We operate on revenue from ads that appeared on your store. If you’re looking for an ad-free store, feel free to <a href=" mail to: apiobuild@gmail.com" target="_blank"> contact us</a> for pricing plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At <a href="https://apiobuild.com/" target="_blank">apio </a>, we believe that good technology should be accessible and shareable. **Chopin is a FREE solution for small business owners.** We operate on revenue from ads that appeared on your store. If you’re looking for an ad-free store, feel free to <a href=" mailto: apiobuild@gmail.com" target="_blank"> contact us</a> for pricing plan.
```

> We also welcome third-party integrations and don’t want to tie you down with all the services we offer. While we offer various microservices and APIs through <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/" target="_blank">Telescope</a>, we’re more than happy to help you link other APIs to your store based on your use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also welcome third-party integrations and don’t want to tie you down with only the services we offer. While we offer various microservices and APIs through <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/" target="_blank">Telescope</a>, we’re more than happy to help you integrate other APIs to your store based on your use cases.
```

> #### Simple yet still Secured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Simple yet Secured
```

> **All Chopin generated sites are SSL certified and meet industry security compliance**, which means your customers’ sensitive data (credit card numbers, CVV, email addresses, phone number, physical address etc.) get encrypted and will not be interpreted by unauthorized users. This feature doesn’t just protect store owners and their customers, is also the required element for implementing third-party payment gateways (i.e. <a href="https://stripe.com/" target="_blank">Stripe</a>, <a href="https://squareup.com/" target="_blank">Square</a>, <a href="https://www.paypal.com/" target="_blank">PayPal</a>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All Chopin generated sites are SSL certified and meet the highest security standard**, which means your customers’ sensitive data (email addresses, phone number, names etc.) are encrypted and protected from unauthorized users. This feature doesn’t just protect store owners and their customers, is also the required element for implementing third-party payment gateways (i.e. <a href="https://stripe.com/" target="_blank">Stripe</a>, <a href="https://squareup.com/" target="_blank">Square</a>, <a href="https://www.paypal.com/" target="_blank">PayPal</a>).
```

## Summary

So how do you know if Chopin is right for you?

- Are you operating on a small profit margin and wanting to **avoid unnecessary operating costs**?
- Are you just starting up an online business and **testing the water**?
- Are you not sure what kind of website you want but **you already have something to sell**?

> If you answer **YES** to one of above questions, <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/app/chopin" target="_blank"> Chopin </a> is the perfect solution for you to kickstart your eCommerce business! <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/app/chopin" target="_blank">Click here to start generating your online store!</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you answer **YES** to one of above questions, <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/app/chopin" target="_blank"> Chopin </a> is the perfect solution for you to kickstart your business! <a href="https://telescope.apiobuild.com/app/chopin" target="_blank">Click here to start generating your online store!</a>
```
